http://www.corelangs.com/css/box/hover.html
http://www.departika.com/
https://www.w3schools.com/bootstrap/bootstrap_carousel.asp


We rode a jeepney to Binangonan and it took us almost an hour until the driver dropped us in Balaw-Balaw. Though we don’t have any idea where we are, I recognized the statue that was in front of me. I remembered that it was the same sculpture that I saw on the internet. I took a picture of it and my companion says that, there have been a lot of changes since he last visited Angono. Some places were abolished because of the road widening while some remained the same. 

Angono is notable to many as the Art Capital of the Philippines. It lies between Laguna Lake and along the foot-hills of Sierra Madre. It covers 26.22 km2 (10.1 sq mi) and 30 km east of Manila. 

In fact, Angono is the first district of Rizal. It is a dandy municipality in which the municipal hall, plaza, church, markets and the barangays were bound closely. It is like during the Spanish era that the church was the kilometre-zero. As a matter of fact, it is composed of ten (10) Barangays namely, Bagumbayan, Kalayaan, Mahabang Parang, Poblacion Ibaba, Poblacion Itaas, San Isidro, Santo Nino, San Pedro, San Roque and San Vicente.

Its original aborigines are mainly Tagalogs, while the Minority ethnic groups were Ilocanos, Bicolanos, Kapampangans, Pangasinenses and Cebuanos. Hence, the lingua de franca of Angono is Tagalog.  

Furthermore, it is notable as the Art Village of our country, for it is the hometown of the two National artists –Carlo “Botong” V. Francisco and Maestro Lucio D. San Pedro, which also includes some of the actors and actresses in the showbiz industry. It is also famous, for its prehistoric artworks called Petroglyphs. 
            
Moreover, art galleries and family museums specifically Blanco Family Museum and Nemiranda Art Gallery may also be the reason why Angono became the Art Capital of the Philippines. Besides, it is where most of the artists originated from. From an exemplary work of an ancestor, it was passed from generation to generation until today. 

In addition, Angono is known for its scrumptious exotic cuisine and fried itik. Restaurants like Balaw-Balaw offers mouth-watering and delicious recipes. On the other hand, different delicacies and snacks can be bought in Angono’s public market. 

Likewise, Angono is renowned for its religious celebrations. One of this is the Higantes Festival or Feast of San Clemente which is celebrated on the 23rd of November, in honor of the patron saint of fishermen and gives prominence to a fluvial procession in Laguna Lake. Nevertheless, gigantic papier mâchés can also be seen during the parade. Next is the Carabao Festival held on May 15 in honor of San Isidro Labrador, whereas carabaos were pulled in carts and ornamented with flowers and bunting. Others are traditional practices during the Holy Week - the Cenaculo (Passion Play), Santo Entierro (Good Friday) and Salubong. 



Written by: Shane Valerie G. Pastoral


FROM: http://angonorizal.weebly.com/historical-background.html


Botong Franscisco
National Artist for Painting (1973)
(November 4, 1912 – March 31, 1969)

Carlos “Botong” Francisco, the poet of Angono, single-handedly revived the forgotten art of mural and remained its most distinguished practitioner for nearly three decades. In panels such as those that grace the City Hall of Manila, Francisco turned fragments of the historic past into vivid records of the legendary courage of the ancestors of his race. He was invariably linked with the “modernist” artists, forming with Victorio C. Edades and Galo Ocampo what was then known in the local art circles as “The Triumvirate”. Botong’s unerring eye for composition, the lush tropical sense of color and an abiding faith in the folk values typified by the townspeople of Angono became the hallmark of his art.

His other major works include the following: Portrait of Purita, The Invasion of Limahong, Serenade, Muslim Betrothal, Blood Compact, First Mass at Limasawa, The Martyrdom of Rizal, Bayanihan, Magpupukot, Fiesta, Bayanihan sa Bukid, Sandugo.

from: http://ncca.gov.ph/about-culture-and-arts/culture-profile/national-artists-of-the-philippines/carlos-botong-francisco/

Lucio San Pedro
National Artist for Music (1991)
(February 11, 1913 – March 31, 2002)

Lucio San Pedro is a master composer, conductor, and teacher whose music evokes the folk elements of the Filipino heritage. Cousin to “Botong” Francisco, San Pedro produced a wide-ranging body of works that includes band music, concertos for violin and orchestra, choral works, cantatas, chamber music, music for violin and piano, and songs for solo voice. He was the conductor of the much acclaimed Peng Kong Grand Mason Concert Band, the San Pedro Band of Angono, his father’s former band, and the Banda Angono Numero Uno. His civic commitment and work with town bands have significantly contributed to the development of a civic culture among Filipino communities and opened a creative outlet for young Filipinos.

His orchestral music include The Devil’s Bridge, Malakas at Maganda Overture,Prelude and Fugue in D minor, Hope and Ambition; choral music Easter Cantata, Sa Mahal Kong Bayan, Rizal’s Valedictory Poem; vocal music Lulay,Sa Ugoy ng Duyan, In the Silence of the Night; and band music Dance of the Fairies, Triumphal March, Lahing Kayumanggi, Angononian March among others.
from: http://ncca.gov.ph/about-culture-and-arts/culture-profile/national-artists-of-the-philippines/lucio-san-pedro/

Blanco Family
Angono Family Records Philippine History Through Paintings
Rizal
/user/xtadlcChrista De La Cruz | Aug 07, 2015
Angono Family Records Philippine History Through Paintings
"Sa family namin, Filipino talaga. Kasi ang goal namin sa family, mai-record 'yong kultura't tradisyon ng mga Pilipino. So nagta-travel kami sa iba't ibang provinces sa Philippines—Batanes, Ilocos Sur, Ilocos Norte, Iloilo, South Cotabato. 'Yung mga subject matter na 'yun, lalabas pa sa mga painting namin. Gano'n din, kung ano 'yung mga ginagawa namin noong araw kasama ng parents namin, inililipat din namin sa mga anak namin 'yun. Nagsschedule kami tulad nung araw, sama-sama kami. Basta pamipamilya pa rin kami, pupunta kami sa iba't ibang probinsiya rin," narrates Michael Blanco, awarded painter and resident curator of the Blanco Family Museum, when asked about his usual subject in an interview with Choose Philippines.



The Blanco Family is one of the artist clans born and bred in Angono, Rizal. 

The head of the family, Jose V. Blanco or "Pitok Bunggan," is known for his mural-size paintings depicting the joyous celebrations in Angono and capturing the faces of real people in the town.


Angono Fisherman's Festival
Jose V. Blanco, 57; Oil on canvas; 244 cm x 453 cm; 1989
 



Pitok was born on March 19, 1932 to parents Ismael Blanco, a fisherman, and Manuela Villones, a vendor. He graduated with a degree in Fine Arts from the University of Santo Tomas in 1955 and eventually worked in an advertising agency until 1971. Free from office work, he was able to put up his first one-man show in 1971 and a family art exhibit in 1978 at the National Museum.



According to his son, Pitok never forced his seven children (Glenn, b. 1962; Noel, b. 1964; Michael, b. 1966; Joy, b. 1968; Jan, b. 1972; Gay, b. 1974; Peter Paul, b. 1980) to be involved in the arts.



"Naikuwento ng kuya [Glenn] ko, ayaw daw ng tatay ko na maging artist kami. Kasi nung araw, ang hirap maging artist. Hindi katulad ngayon, kahit saang lugar andaming gallery. Noong araw, hindi. Parang sinasabi nung araw na ang mga artist, hindi makakabuhay ng pamilya. Parang tinutukso nga ang tatay ko noong araw, nung nanliligaw sa nanay ko, kinakantiyawan siya na 'pintor pulapol'—pintor na walang kinabukasan. Pero na-prove niya otherwise. Nakapagpatayo siya ng museum."


Higantes Festival
Gay P. Blanco, 5; Oil pastel on wood; 1979
 


Paper Mache Carabao Head
Jan P. Blanco, 5; Oil pastel on wood; 1977
Despite the father's reluctance, the Blanco kids eventually found their way in front of an easel and with a paintbrush on one hand. Such interest is, after all, in their blood. Pitok's uncle is Juan Senson (Tandang Juancho), regarded as the grandfather of the arts in Angono, while one of their mother's forefathers is painter-sculptor Tandang Pepe Piñon. 


Works of Glenn P. Blanco
"Kasi 'yung diko ko [Glenn], lagi kong nakikitang nagdodrowing siya e so sinusundan ko siya. Pag nagse-sketch siya, tumatabi ako, nakiki-sketch din ako. Bale parang magkabarkada kami ng diko. Tapos nung nakita kami ng tatay ko na nagdo-drowing, sabi niya 'Dito kayo mag-drowing sa lapit ko.' So 'yun 'yung start ng pag-guide sa amin ng tatay. 'Yun din 'yung time na nag-resign na siya sa J. Walter Thompson as an advertising art director. 'Yung time na nagdodrowing na kami ng diko, 'yung mga kapatid ko isa-isa nang sumama sa amin."


Work by Joy P. Blanco
His youngest sibling, Peter Paul, was born two years after the family's first exhibit.

"Kaya ang kinamulatan niya sa pamilya namin, lahat kami nagpe-painting. Ang larúan niya studio namin na kami doon may kanya-kanyang easel, tatay ko nasa harapan. Ang lalakí ng ginagawang paintings. Bawal sa amin mag-paint ng gabi. Pero madalas nahuhuli pa rin ako ng tatay ko, nagpe-paint ko. Kaya sinasabi niya, 'Ikaw, Michael, di ka mawawalan ng trabaho. Minsan matuto kang magpahinga.' Pero nag-eenjoy ako sa ginagawa ko, pag nag-eenjoy ako, dirediretso ako e."


Works of Peter Paul P. Blanco
None of the seven studied Fine Arts in the academe. 

Jan and Joy both studied business at the National College of Business and Arts while the three University of Santo Tomas alumni studied other courses in the liberal arts: Michael in Literature, Noel in Mass Communication, and Glenn in Journalism.

"Naging mas malawak 'yung pang-unawa ko sa humanities so mas na-appreciate ko 'yung iba't ibang klaseng art forms," says Michael on having studied Lit instead of Fine Arts.


Canao
Noel P. Blanco, Oil on canvas, 1990
Growing up accustomed to traveling, Michael's work process involves a lot of outdoor sketching while on-site. He then translates these initial creations into bigger paintings when he goes back to his studio.

"Maganda kong napuntahan South Cotabato. Nakalampas pa kami sa Lake Sebu. After do'n sa workshop namin, plano kong pumuntang Lake Sebu, sabi sa 'kin ng boss ko 'Maganda sana makapunta ka do'n sa Talili, kasi do'n nanggagaling ang tubig na dumadaloy papuntang Lake Sebu, na dumadaloy papuntang Seven Falls.' Ako lang mag-isa nakakatakot. Wala pang daan. Nung una aspalto, pagkatapos merong bridge na kahoy, tapos bukid, sabi ko, 'sige diretso pa may mga tao pa naman,' may nadaanan pa akong ang daan kawayan. Ang ganda. 'Yun ilalagay ko sa painting ko 'yun. Di ko pa nagagawa pero may mga sketches na ako."


Tide Rising at Basco, Batanes
Michael P. Blanco, Oil on canvas, 2004
 


Beginning of a New Day
Michael P. Blanco, Oil on canvas, 2004
The Blanco Family Museum currently houses 425 artworks. With every member's continuous production of pieces depicting our country's heritage,  it is just right to say that the Blanco Family is not only a pride of Angono but also a pride of the Philippines. 

"Ang style namin realism. Ang subject matter naman namin ay kultura at tradisyon ng mga Pilipino. Kasi ang paniniwala namin, ang mga paintings, isang paraan 'yan para i-record kung anong history ng Philippines para sa mata ng mga artist."


Kinfolk of Art
 

The Blanco Family Museum is located at 312 A. Ibañez St. Angono, Rizal. It is open from Tuesday to Sunday, 8 am-5 pm. 
from: http://www.choosephilippines.com/specials/people/3312/blanco-family-angono-rizal/